README.md, before:

<!-- statamic:hide -->

![Statamic](https://flat.badgen.net/badge/Statamic/3.2.24+/FF269E)
![Packagist version](https://flat.badgen.net/packagist/v/jacksleight/statamic-bard-texstyle)
![License](https://flat.badgen.net/github/license/jacksleight/statamic-bard-texstyle)

# Statamic Bard Texstyle

<!-- /statamic:hide -->

> **FYI:** This addon supersedes [Bard Paragraph Style](https://statamic.com/addons/jacksleight/bard-paragraph-style), it offers everything that did and more! If you're using that already [check the migration guide](https://github.com/jacksleight/statamic-bard-texstyle/blob/main/MIGRATION.md), I’ve made it as simple as I could.

This Statamic addon gives you the ability to add custom heading, paragraph and inline (span) text styles to the Bard fieldtype.

## Installation

You can search for this addon in the `Tools > Addons` section of the Statamic control panel and click **install**, or run the following command from your project root:

```bash
composer require jacksleight/statamic-bard-texstyle
```

## Configuration

Publish the config:

```bash
php please vendor:publish --tag=statamic-bard-texstyle-config
```

Open `config/statamic/bard_texstyle.php` and add your styles:

```php
'styles' => [

    'intro' => [
        'type'   => 'paragraph',
        'name'   => 'Introduction',
        'ident'  => 'I',
        'class'  => 'introduction',
        'cp_css' => 'font-size: 1.25em',
    ],

],
```

Each style must have a key which is used as the button name. Styles can have the following options:

* **type (string)**  
  The type (`heading`, `paragraph` or `span`).
* **level (string)**  
  The heading level (only applicable to `heading` styles).
* **name (string)**  
  The name of the style. This will appear in the tooltip.
* **ident (string)**  
  A short identification string (one or two characters). This will appear in the button.
* **class (string)**  
  The class name that will be applied for this style. Must be unique within the type.
* **cp_css (string)**  
  The CSS properties that will be added to the control panel for this style.

### Enabling the Buttons

You can enable the buttons in any Bard field, either through the blueprint/fieldset editor or by adding them to the buttons list in the YAML file directly.

When using heading styles the matching `h*` button must also be enabled in the Bard field.

### Configuring the Stored Values

By default the class names are saved to your content. If you would prefer to save the style keys instead you can change the `store` option to `key`. Saving the style key allows you to rename classes later without having to update all your content, but it does make your content dependant on the Bard Texstyle configuration.

```php
'store' => 'key',
```

## Compatibility

This addon uses Bard Mutator under the hood to extend the built-in Heading and Paragraph node functionality. Please check the [compatibility](https://github.com/jacksleight/statamic-bard-mutator#compatibility) notes for more information.

Commit message:

Ability to add default classes to elements without a style set (#6)

README.md, after:

<!-- statamic:hide -->

![Statamic](https://flat.badgen.net/badge/Statamic/3.2.24+/FF269E)
![Packagist version](https://flat.badgen.net/packagist/v/jacksleight/statamic-bard-texstyle)
![License](https://flat.badgen.net/github/license/jacksleight/statamic-bard-texstyle)

# Statamic Bard Texstyle

<!-- /statamic:hide -->

> **FYI:** This addon supersedes [Bard Paragraph Style](https://statamic.com/addons/jacksleight/bard-paragraph-style), it offers everything that did and more! If you're using that already [check the migration guide](https://github.com/jacksleight/statamic-bard-texstyle/blob/main/MIGRATION.md), I’ve made it as simple as I could.

This Statamic addon gives you the ability to add custom heading, paragraph and inline (span) text styles to the Bard fieldtype.

## Installation

You can search for this addon in the `Tools > Addons` section of the Statamic control panel and click **install**, or run the following command from your project root:

```bash
composer require jacksleight/statamic-bard-texstyle
```

## Configuration

Publish the config:

```bash
php please vendor:publish --tag=statamic-bard-texstyle-config
```

Open `config/statamic/bard_texstyle.php` and add your styles:

```php
'styles' => [

    'intro' => [
        'type'   => 'paragraph',
        'name'   => 'Introduction',
        'ident'  => 'I',
        'class'  => 'introduction',
        'cp_css' => 'font-size: 1.25em',
    ],

],
```

Each style must have a key which is used as the button name. Styles can have the following options:

* **type (string)**  
  The type (`heading`, `paragraph` or `span`).
* **level (string)**  
  The heading level (only applicable to `heading` styles).
* **name (string)**  
  The name of the style. This will appear in the tooltip.
* **ident (string)**  
  A short identification string (one or two characters). This will appear in the button.
* **class (string)**  
  The class name that will be applied for this style. Must be unique within the type.
* **cp_css (string)**  
  The CSS properties that will be added to the control panel for this style.

### Enabling the Buttons

You can enable the buttons in any Bard field, either through the blueprint/fieldset editor or by adding them to the buttons list in the YAML file directly.

When using heading styles the matching `h*` button must also be enabled in the Bard field.

### Default Classes

You can use the `default_classes` option to apply classes to elements that have no style set:

```php
'default_classes' => [
    'heading' => [
        1 => 'head-1',
        2 => 'head-2',
        // ...
    ],
    'paragraph' => 'para',
],
```

You can add default classes for any of the [nodes and marks supported by Bard Mutator](https://github.com/jacksleight/statamic-bard-mutator#avaliable-nodes--marks).

### Stored Values

By default the class names are saved to your content. If you would prefer to save the style keys instead you can change the `store` option to `key`. Saving the style key allows you to rename classes later without having to update all your content, but it does make your content dependant on the Bard Texstyle configuration.

```php
'store' => 'key',
```

## Compatibility

This addon uses Bard Mutator under the hood to extend the built-in Heading and Paragraph node functionality. Please check the [compatibility](https://github.com/jacksleight/statamic-bard-mutator#compatibility) notes for more information.
